Galina Zaglumyonova was woken in her flat in central Chelyabinsk by an enormous explosion that blew in the balcony windows and shattered clay pots containing her few houseplants. When she jumped out of bed she could see a huge vapor trail hanging in the morning sky and hear the wail of car alarms from the street below. “I didn't understand what was going on,” said Zaglumyonova. “There was a big explosion and then a series of little explosions. My first thought was that it was a plane crash.” What she had actually witnessed were the death throes of a ten-ton meteorite that plunged to Earth in a series of fireballs just after sunrise. Officials put the number of people injured at almost 1,200, with more than 40 taken to hospital – most as a result of flying glass shattered by the sonic boom created by the meteorite's descent. There were no reported deaths. What happened in Galina's apartment because of the explosion? a) A chandelier fell off the ceiling. b) The apartment filled up with vapor. c) The balcony collapsed. d) Pots were damaged The meteorite entered the atmosphere traveling at a speed of at least 33,000mph and broke up into chunks between 18 and 32 miles above the ground, according to a statement from the Russian Academy of Sciences. The event caused panic in Chelyabinsk, a Russian city of one million people to the south of the Ural mountains, as mobile phone networks swiftly became jammed by the volume of calls. Amateur video footage from the area, often peppered with the obscene language of frightened observers, showed the chunks of meteorite glowing more brightly as they approached the moment of impact. The vapor trail was visible for hundreds of miles around, including in neighboring Kazakhstan. What was notable about the vapor trail left behind by the meteorite? a) It spanned between 18 and 32 miles. b) It was noticeable from very far distances. c) It was located in Kazakhstan. d) It remained in the air for weeks Tatyana Bets was at work in the reception area of a hospital clinic in the center of the city when the meteorite hit. “First we noticed the wind, and then the room was filled with a very bright light and we could see smoke in the sky,” she said. Then, after a few minutes, the explosions came. At least three craters were found. One crater was more than six meters wide. Another piece of meteorite broke through the thick ice of a lake. The local military said that the radiation levels at the impact sites were normal. What is true of one of the meteorite fragments? a) It had abnormal radiation levels. b) It formed at the backyard of a school. c) It landed on a lake. d) It was more than six meters wide In Chelyabinsk, schools and universities were closed and people were told to go home early. About 200 children were injured. Many people, mostly with cuts from flying glass, came into the clinic where Bets works. She said many of the students at a nearby college came to the hospital because they were scared. “There were a lot of girls from the college in shock,” she said. More than 100,000 square meters of glass were broken and 3,000 buildings were hit. The total cost of the damage in the city is probably more than one billion roubles (£20 million). What is true of most of the people who came into the clinic where Bets works? a) They were injured by glass. b) They were children. c) They were in shock. d) They were brought in ambulances The meteorite over Chelyabinsk arrived less than a day before asteroid 2012 DA14 was expected to make the closest pass to Earth (about 17,510 miles) of any recorded cosmic body. But experts said the two events were linked by nothing more than coincidence. Rumors and conspiracy theories, however, swirled in the first few hours after the incident. Reports on Russian state television and in local media suggested that the meteorite was engaged by local air defense units and blown apart at an altitude of more than 15 miles. What did rumours say about the Russian military and air defense? a) They ignored the impending meteorite. b) They detected the asteroid 2012 DA14. c) They only responded to the incident after a few hours had passed. d) They exploded the meteorite into pieces The ultranationalist leader of Russia's Liberal Democrat party, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, said it was not a meteorite but military action by the United States, echoing much of the speculation voiced on amateur film footage. “It's not a meteorite falling – it's a test of new American weapons,” Zhirinovsky said. Some were quick to take advantage of the confusion. Enterprising people were offering lumps of meteorite for sale through internet sites within a few hours of the impact. President Vladimir Putin and the Prime Minister, Dmitry Medvedev, were informed about the incident, and Putin convened a meeting with the head of the Emergency Situations Ministry. “It's proof that not only are economies vulnerable but the whole planet,” Medvedev said at an economic forum in Siberia. How did some people react to the meteorite crash? a) They expressed their support for Vladimir Zhirinovsky. b) They retreated into hiding in underground shelters. c) They blamed Putin and Medvedev. d) They attempted to profit off of it Galina Zaglumyonova was woken in her flat in central Chelyabinsk by an enormous explosion that blew in the balcony windows and shattered clay pots containing her few houseplants. When she jumped out of bed she could see a huge vapor trail hanging in the morning sky and hear the wail of car alarms from the street below. “I didn't understand what was going on,” said Zaglumyonova. “There was a big explosion and then a series of little explosions. My first thought was that it was a plane crash.” What she had actually witnessed were the death throes of a ten-ton meteorite that plunged to Earth in a series of fireballs just after sunrise. Officials put the number of people injured at almost 1,200, with more than 40 taken to hospital – most as a result of flying glass shattered by the sonic boom created by the meteorite's descent. There were no reported deaths. What happened to almost 1,200 people? a) They lost their homes. b) They were in a plane crash. c) They were brought to the hospital. d) They were hurt in the meteorite incident The meteorite entered the atmosphere traveling at a speed of at least 33,000mph and broke up into chunks between 18 and 32 miles above the ground, according to a statement from the Russian Academy of Sciences. The event caused panic in Chelyabinsk, a Russian city of one million people to the south of the Ural mountains, as mobile phone networks swiftly became jammed by the volume of calls. Amateur video footage from the area, often peppered with the obscene language of frightened observers, showed the chunks of meteorite glowing more brightly as they approached the moment of impact. The vapor trail was visible for hundreds of miles around, including in neighboring Kazakhstan. Where is Chelyabinsk located? a) In Russia. b) In Ukraine. c) In the Ural mountains. d) In Kazakhstan Tatyana Bets was at work in the reception area of a hospital clinic in the center of the city when the meteorite hit. “First we noticed the wind, and then the room was filled with a very bright light and we could see smoke in the sky,” she said. Then, after a few minutes, the explosions came. At least three craters were found. One crater was more than six meters wide. Another piece of meteorite broke through the thick ice of a lake. The local military said that the radiation levels at the impact sites were normal. What was Tatyana Bets doing as she noticed the wind, light and smoke? a) Working at the city center. b) Hospitalized at a clinic. c) Visiting a lake. d) Preparing to go to bed In Chelyabinsk, schools and universities were closed and people were told to go home early. About 200 children were injured. Many people, mostly with cuts from flying glass, came into the clinic where Bets works. She said many of the students at a nearby college came to the hospital because they were scared. “There were a lot of girls from the college in shock,” she said. More than 100,000 square meters of glass were broken and 3,000 buildings were hit. The total cost of the damage in the city is probably more than one billion roubles (£20 million). Who was in shock, according to Bets? a) College students. b) Hospital staff. c) People injured by glass. d) Children The meteorite over Chelyabinsk arrived less than a day before asteroid 2012 DA14 was expected to make the closest pass to Earth (about 17,510 miles) of any recorded cosmic body. But experts said the two events were linked by nothing more than coincidence. Rumors and conspiracy theories, however, swirled in the first few hours after the incident. Reports on Russian state television and in local media suggested that the meteorite was engaged by local air defense units and blown apart at an altitude of more than 15 miles. What is true of the asteroid 2012 DA14? a) It created panic in Russia. b) It was blown apart by the Russian military. c) It hit earth 17,510 miles away from the landing site of the meteorite. d) It passed Earth without hitting it The ultranationalist leader of Russia's Liberal Democrat party, Vladimir Zhirinovsky, said it was not a meteorite but military action by the United States, echoing much of the speculation voiced on amateur film footage. “It's not a meteorite falling – it's a test of new American weapons,” Zhirinovsky said. Some were quick to take advantage of the confusion. Enterprising people were offering lumps of meteorite for sale through internet sites within a few hours of the impact. President Vladimir Putin and the Prime Minister, Dmitry Medvedev, were informed about the incident, and Putin convened a meeting with the head of the Emergency Situations Ministry. “It's proof that not only are economies vulnerable but the whole planet,” Medvedev said at an economic forum in Siberia. What did Vladimir Zhirinovsky say? a) That his thoughts are with the Russian people. b) That meteorite pieces were sold online. c) That an arms trial was conducted by another country. d) That the event demonstrates how vulnerable Russia is