The small room looks likroom. The posters on the walls show letters of the alphabet and a map of Bangladesh. But, it is hard to concentrate – there is the loud hammering and chemicals in the air that hurt the throat and eyes. But, the children who learn in this three- square-meter room are lucky. They have escaped working in the factories opposite. What is depicted on the walls? a) A map of a country. b) Images of factory workers. c) Portraits of historical figures. d) Letters from several languages For 14 years, SOHAY, a non-governmental organization (NGO), has worked in slums in Dhaka to send child workers to school. It especially tries to help children who do dangerous work. The classroom is one of 23 centers that SOHAY has set up in Dhaka. The classes at the centers help children enter primary school. When they are in school, the children get extra help with their homework at the centers. Alamin, ten years old, used to work in a plastic factory. He now goes to one of the centers. His parents are happy that he's now in school and not doing dangerous work. His friend Rabi says he wants to forget his past in the factory. “I like school,” he says. What does Alamin currently do? a) Attends one of the learning centers. b) Works at a plastic factory. c) Volunteers at an NGO. d) Rescues children from factories SOHAY also has classes for parents and employers to stop child labor. “It can be very difficult for working children to go to school,” says SOHAY's program manager, Mohammed al- Mamun. “They are not like other children. After they stop working, they sometimes find it difficult to make friends and adapt to school.” It is also difficult to make sure they stay in school – lots of these children don't finish school. Seven-year-old Zhorna Akter Sumayya has two older brothers – they both work (one at a restaurant, one at a local club). But, she went to a SOHAY center and she now goes to school. Her parents need the money their sons make, but they want their daughter to go to school. What do Zhorna's brothers do? a) One works at a restaurant and a club, and the other goes to school. b) They are both employed so that they can make money for their parents. c) They help Zhorna with her homework after school. d) They try their best to not drop out of school before finishing In 2015, SOHAY helped 1,540 children to leave hazardous work and 2,125 vulnerable children – those in danger of entering work – into school. About 780 more children are preparing to enter school in 2017. The organization is also helping 635 children who are working in hazardous conditions to know their rights under Bangladesh's 2010 child labor elimination code of conduct. The policy aimed to eradicate all forms of child labor by 2015 but that target was missed. The Labor Law of Bangladesh 2006 bans children under the age of 14 from working but, according to the UN children's agency, UNICEF, 4.7 million children under that age are employed in the informal sector and 1.3 million aged five to 17 work in hazardous industries. What did SOHAY do in 2015? a) Provided free classes for 3,000 children. b) Provided funds for 1,540 children in danger of leaving school. c) Assisted 2,125 children in attending school instead of beginning work. d) Collaborated with UNICEF to reduce child labor The small room looks like a classroom. The posters on the walls show letters of the alphabet and a map of Bangladesh. But, it is hard to concentrate – there is the loud hammering and chemicals in the air that hurt the throat and eyes. But, the children who learn in this three- square-meter room are lucky. They have escaped working in the factories opposite. Why are the people in the room lucky? a) Their parents can afford sending them to a private school. b) They are not exposed to harmful chemicals in the air. c) They no longer need to study in a three-square-meter room. d) They do not work in factories nearby For 14 years, SOHAY, a non-governmental organization (NGO), has worked in slums in Dhaka to send child workers to school. It especially tries to help children who do dangerous work. The classroom is one of 23 centers that SOHAY has set up in Dhaka. The classes at the centers help children enter primary school. When they are in school, the children get extra help with their homework at the centers. Alamin, ten years old, used to work in a plastic factory. He now goes to one of the centers. His parents are happy that he's now in school and not doing dangerous work. His friend Rabi says he wants to forget his past in the factory. “I like school,” he says. What do the classes at the center do? a) Provide children additional homework. b) Assist children with getting ready for primary school. c) Provide childcare for children while their parents are working. d) Teach children safety conditions for doing risky work SOHAY also has classes for parents and employers to stop child labor. “It can be very difficult for working children to go to school,” says SOHAY's program manager, Mohammed al- Mamun. “They are not like other children. After they stop working, they sometimes find it difficult to make friends and adapt to school.” It is also difficult to make sure they stay in school – lots of these children don't finish school. Seven-year-old Zhorna Akter Sumayya has two older brothers – they both work (one at a restaurant, one at a local club). But, she went to a SOHAY center and she now goes to school. Her parents need the money their sons make, but they want their daughter to go to school. What is a challenge working children face in regards to attending school, according to al-Mamun? a) It can be hard for them to assimilate to the school environment. b) After they stop working, they miss their friends from the factory. c) SOHAY's classes are intended for parents and employers, not children. d) They don't have enough preparation for the level of learning In 2015, SOHAY helped 1,540 children to leave hazardous work and 2,125 vulnerable children – those in danger of entering work – into school. About 780 more children are preparing to enter school in 2017. The organization is also helping 635 children who are working in hazardous conditions to know their rights under Bangladesh's 2010 child labor elimination code of conduct. The policy aimed to eradicate all forms of child labor by 2015 but that target was missed. The Labor Law of Bangladesh 2006 bans children under the age of 14 from working but, according to the UN children's agency, UNICEF, 4.7 million children under that age are employed in the informal sector and 1.3 million aged five to 17 work in hazardous industries. What statistic does UNICEF provide about children in Bangladesh? a) 1.3 million children are employed in unsafe working conditions. b) 4.7 million children are unable to attend school. c) 1,540 children were able to leave risky work in 2015. d) The children labor rates in Bangladesh are higher than in other countriese a class